one thing that people do not understand
is that you can literally change the way
that you think you can re-wire your
brain and develop a mindset that can
lead you to achieving whatever it is
that you set your mind to and are
willing to pay the price to actually
achieve but the question is how if you
want to know how to develop a growth
mindset and achieve your dreams
definitely pay attention to this episode
if you want to be successful mindset is
everything the reason that mindset is so
important is at the end of the day only
execution matters so if you have big
dreams if you have goals something that
you're trying to accomplish in your life
you're going to have to execute against
that so why do I say that mindset is so
important in that scenario the reason is
that ultimately to achieve the things
you want to achieve I can promise you
when you start out you're not good
enough yet to achieve that and or you
don't have the right plan and so the way
to refine the plan to actually do the
thing that you want to accomplish you're
going to have to run through what I call
the physics of progress the physics of
progress are very simple they require
you to have a hypothesis which is simply
your best guess this is what I think I
have to do to achieve my goals then
you're going to turn that into something
you can do you're going to do that thing
it's going to fail to some degree that's
just the way it works but failure is the
most information Rich data stream on
planet Earth but to accurately assess
the data and figure out what it's
telling you about why you failed to some
extent or why it was more
inefficient than it needs to be
you have to be willing to stare nakedly
at your own inadequacies take
responsibility for the outcome not make
it somebody else's fault or the
economy's fault or whatever any external
Force if you're making it an external
problem you're never going to be able to
learn the lesson you need to learn in
order to improve your behavior so that
you can then execute better and make
more progress that really is it that's
the physics of progress hypothesis
turn it into something actionable run
that action learn from the partial
failure get a little bit smarter
come up with a new hypothesis that is
more informed turn it into something
actionable run that it will fail again
to some degree figure out why by
lowering your defenses having a growth
mindset making sure that you are able to
take on the responsibility now why is
that a mindset question why can't you
just run that equation if it really is
that simple the answer is you have in
your brain something called the
psychological immune system this is
something given to you by millions of
years of evolution we should all be
extremely grateful for it and the
psychological immune system's job is to
make sure that you don't commit suicide
it is designed to make you feel better
about things it's the reason why you can
mess up make a mistake and you can
soothe yourself now the problem is that
the goal of the psychological immune
system is not for you to achieve your
goals it's simply to make sure that you
feel good enough about yourself that you
can keep moving through life
now the reason that that becomes wildly
problematic and is one of the most
important things you have to address in
your mindset if you're going to be
successful is because the number one
tool that your psychological immune
system works to soothe your ego is to
make everything somebody else's fault it
is the fault of the government it is the
fault of rich people it is the fault of
not being born the right color not being
born the right sex so on and so forth it
is making something the external problem
now here's the really bad news your
psychological immune system is going to
grab for a very valid excuse those
things that I listed may all be true
they may really all be holding you back
the problem is you want to know what the
right mindset for success is and if you
want to be successful you are going to
have to overcome a endless parade of
problems and to overcome the endless
parade of problems you have to have a
way to take responsibility
for what you can do differently to
overcome those problems instead of being
annoyed instead of shutting down instead
of just pointing the finger you want to
adapt your behavior it sucks that the
second law of Thermodynamics is that all
things move towards chaos
it sucks that humans are so complicated
and so weird that we don't just lift
each other and love each other which we
do and is amazing we tear each other
down we kill each other man read history
books it will terrify you about how
brutal humans can be it is crazy how
many different times and places
throughout history we have just
slaughtered people in Mass numbers in
the most horrifying way that you can
possibly imagine so if humans can slide
all the way to that level of depraved
Madness and we know that everything
moves towards chaos how do we bring the
massive amount of order
that we have to bring to the world so
that we can March ever long towards
success and actually achieve it
the only way to overcome chaos the only
way to overcome entropy which is the
fancy name for chaos is to pour energy
into the system so you have to
constantly pour energy into your own
life to make sure that you're making
progress to your goals if you're going
to eventually achieve success and the
only way that you're going to be able to
do that is to have a growth mindset now
really simply a growth mindset is that
you believe that your talent and
intelligence are not fixed traits that
you can get better at something as you
put time and energy into getting better
at that thing it's what I call the only
belief that matters the only belief that
matters is that by applying time and
energy into something you will actually
get better at it now once you believe
that everything in your life Downstream
of that gets better because now you know
oh I messed up at this thing I suck at
that thing the world is trying to stop
me from doing that thing the world is a
effective at stopping me from doing that
thing a word all I need to do is go and
get better and I can outperform people
as Kobe Bryant said and this has become
my favorite quote in the world
booze don't block dunks now what did he
mean by that he meant
that no matter what you can get so good
that people can't stop you
people were paid millions of dollars to
stop Kobe Bryant from scoring points and
yet he scored 81 points in a single game
just by getting better than other people
getting better than other people
requires you to have a growth mindset
that's the growth part you're going to
get better
so that when you fail and you will fail
over and over and over and over and over
and over and over again
and it's going to be embarrassing it's
going to hurt and all that but when you
fail
if you believe oh failing means that I'm
a failure because my talent and
intelligence are fixed traits there's
nothing I can do to get better you will
stop why wouldn't you it's the only
thing that makes sense
but if on the other hand you believe
that oh
I can get better at this I'm not good
enough yet but I can get good enough by
applying time and energy into getting
better so now you'll apply that time and
energy because you believe that it will
yield the outcome that you want and that
is why it is so critical to get your
mind right so that you can run that Loop
of the physics of progress because watch
how it breaks down if you don't have a
growth mindset I have a hypothesis hey
this is what I need to do I'm going to
try this thing I tried it oh my God I
failed it's embarrassing I'm hurt
emotionally people are making fun of me
my parents are telling me I told you so
oh my God like I don't want to keep
going and by the way this is making me
really feel badly about myself so now
I'm going to Stew over it I'm going to
think about this all the time why did I
fail man I'm cool I didn't do anything
wrong oh I failed because the world
sucks the world's against me
all the reasons that people make up not
even makeup all the very valid reasons
that you were stopped if you have a
fixed mindset you're going to tell
yourself that you're going to take those
excuses because they make you feel
better about yourself and in that moment
of emotional crisis that happens every
time we fail you're going to reach for
whatever makes you feel better
if on the other hand you have a growth
mindset when you hit that moment you're
going to be like okay cool I need to get
better at this I'm going to have to
transform my potential into usable skill
set and then execute against that then
you can reformulate or hypothesis come
up with a better action to do run that
and even though it will fail again to
some extent you'll have made more
progress and when you iterate on that
Loop enough just relentlessly getting
better trying new things making
incremental Improvement
then you win and that is the only path
to success once you decide that you're
going to really pursue success you have
to start asking yourself a fundamental
question around the growth mindset if
getting a growth mindset is difficult
what is the opposite of that
the opposite of a growth mindset is a
fixed mindset
now if a growth mindset is defined as I
believe that my talent and intelligence
are malleable traits meaning that I can
actually get better at something
a fixed mindset is the opposite that
your Delta hand of cards genetically and
it just is what it is and so your life
is really about doing the best you can
with the hand that you've been dealt but
there's nothing that you can do to
improve I want to aggressively debunk
that myth
so the human animal every species has to
choose to either be born with all of the
things you're going to need to do to go
be that thing so a cat is born with all
the things that needs to be a cat a
horse is born with all the things that
needs to be a horse so on and so forth
and so that's why 20 minutes after being
born a horse can do all of the things
that that horse is going to do it's up
it's walking around you can run all of
that imagine humans getting up and
running around 20 minutes after being
born we would lose our minds we'd freak
out what is going on that that is a a
child unlike any other child in all of
human history
because we have the ability to adapt and
so we chose a very different strategy so
all animals bifurcate between those two
things the vast majority come with
almost all or all of things
pre-programmed they just do it
instinctively you don't have to be
taught now of course they're going to be
things that the margins how to better
hunt and what stream to go to and all
that so there's some amount of that that
is going to be learned in the wild but
they're going to be able to do most of
the things like the vast majority 90
plus percent of the things right after
being born
humans on the other hand can't even hold
their own head up they can't even hold
their own head up for months so we have
taken a totally different path which is
the path of adaptation Now by choosing
that path we have become the most
dominant Predator the world has ever
seen so the question becomes what is it
about a about that setup that means that
we need to leverage a growth mindset and
completely debunks this idea of a fixed
mindset
we know that humans the average human is
designed to grow and get better that's
what we do that's the evolutionary
strategy that we've chosen so if we know
that the average human is designed to
grow and get better it becomes a
question of are you creating a frame of
reference about how you view the world
that gets you to take advantage of that
the reason that so many people peak in
their teenage years and they don't
continue to get better is they have a
fixed mindset so what ends up happening
is they go and they try out for
basketball to use my own example since
this was something I struggled with and
I was so unbelievably bad at basketball
it never occurred to me that if I
actually worked at practice that I would
get better so since I was so embarrassed
by my lack of talent in basketball I was
always trying to hide on the bench I
didn't want people to pass me the ball
if they pass me the ball I would panic I
was never thinking about oh how do I get
better like go home practice dribbling
practice shooting that didn't even occur
to me I was just like I'm bad at this
thing I'm never going to get good at
this thing and so I just didn't try
right and it was all about hiding if I
had realized wait a second the average
human is actually designed to get better
now it is very important to note that we
are not playing slights so if LeBron
James and I had grown up together done
all the same things I dribbled the ball
just as many times as he did I had the
same coaches as he did I shot as many
free throws practiced step for step in
the way that he did odds are I'm never
gonna get as good as he's gonna get he's
much taller than I am he is far more
explosive and athletic he may have a
mind that is way better suited to
tracking the different things you have
to do on the court from reading the
court understanding the other players
moving his body all of it I don't know
because I never pushed myself but I'm
gonna guess that he's pretty Elite from
the part of us that is hardwired now
science seems to indicate that we are
roughly 50 hardwired and 50 malleable so
the odds of me becoming the next LeBron
James at basketball is vanishingly Slim
though admittedly I never tried at the
peak of my physical prowess so I can't
rule it out but I am going to say that
that doesn't strike me as the right use
of my time and energy but once you
realize that a growth mindset is real
you realize that you can get let's just
call it a hundred times better at
anything now if you start at a way worse
position because you don't have the
mental or physical gifts that somebody
else has in the 50 that's hardwired the
end point of your 100 times better may
be radically different than that person
fair enough but once you realize wait a
second anything in my life I can get 100
times better that becomes the central
question of your life once you have a
growth mindset and You Begin applying
that growth mindset now it's a question
of how far can you go if you have a
growth mindset because you can take
yourself
extraordinarily far in an area where
you've got some positive momentum from
the 50 percent of you that is hardwired
so finding that thing that you both love
and have a natural inclination and two
and then slather on top of that an
obscene amount of work and if you look
at somebody like Kobe Bryant who
inspires the life out of me that guy
worked so hard to get good and put that
on top of his already
immeasurable gifts but I would like to
point out that Not only was he one of
the greatest basketball players of all
time he won an Academy Award he won an
Academy Award for a film that he made so
Not only was he able to dominate in a
sport that you could say arguably he had
some really natural talents I doubt that
he also had an equal amount of Talent on
the filmmaking side and that hearing him
talk about it he went out and found the
greatest Minds in filmmaking and learned
from them worked with them to create
something that really was a breathtaking
Masterpiece and so understanding that
that if you 100x your abilities in an
area it will be such a meaningful
transformation in your life that your
life in that area will be unrecognizable
on the other side of that energy and
effort and that ultimately is the
difference between a fixed mindset and a
growth mindset because the person with a
fixed mindset may have had not only the
same 50 percent as somebody who goes on
to be very successful the hardwired 50
they might be ahead
and this is why when you have people
that outwork somebody that has more
natural Talent than them they end up
going farther now of course the person
that has both the natural talent and the
insane work ethic is going to go farther
than the person without the natural
talent and only the insane work ethic
but since let me spoiler alert on the
human existence
most people quit most people give up
they just
life is going to batter you about
there's going to be so much difficulty
in your life there's going to be failure
pain suffering emotional trauma uh
embarrassment all of that just it it
chips away at the average person because
they aren't relentlessly focused on a
growth mindset and they're building
their self-esteem around being right
better faster stronger if on the other
hand they would focus on the growth
mindset they would realize that they can
get better and they put all of their
energy and effort into creating that
frame of reference so that they're
viewing the world in a way that is
optimistic and encouraging them to go in
and put that energy and effort into
something now because they're seeing
that incremental Improvement when the
world is knocking them about they
realize oh I can get better at this I
can outperform more people and so
they're going to be more resilient and
they're not going to be as easy to shut
down they're not going to be as easy to
break and so the people that I have
found that are the most resilient in
life they they have the most intensely
developed growth mindset and that's part
of the key you really do have to develop
a growth mindset while some people
pretty early on Realize like oh when I
encounter something difficult I don't
have to back down or give in I can
actually push myself grow and get better
there's limits to that for most people
and so it really is something that even
if you have the beginnings of a growth
mindset you want to make sure that
you're sharpening that sharpening that
sharpening that and really proving to
yourself just how much is possible while
it's outside the scope of this answer I
will say this is why I think that
transforming your physique is one of the
most potent things you can do to
transform your mind because it will show
you very
visually and viscerally that you can go
in not being able to lift a weight you
can work your way up to something and
that over time you literally transform
your body your strength and are capable
of doing things you weren't capable of
doing before if you could see what's
happening to your brain I think far more
people would push themselves into that
zone because they would realize like
whoa I'm really able to get more out of
myself now than I was a year ago three
years ago five years ago and getting
people into that zone where they see the
kind of gains they're making that's
really critical to getting them to
continue to crystallize their belief in
the growth mindset which going back to
what I said earlier gives them the only
belief that matters which is that if I
put energy and effort into getting
better I will actually get better which
means that they will continue to pour
themselves into getting better at
something and that's the path forward
but you have to be willing to sharpen
your growth mindset if you don't do that
then you're are going to be very easy to
knock off course because life is going
to prove to you that you really aren't
good enough to achieve Grand goals and
so that's what ends up breaking somebody
with a fixed mindset because they they
are constantly confronted with their
inadequacies that feels like a life
sentence they don't think that they're
ever going to be able to improve and so
the negative way that they feel about
themselves when they're beaten by
somebody else because For Better or
Worse we are a comparative creature We
compare ourselves to other people all
the time so in that moment of comparison
somebody with a fixed mindset is like
they're better than me they will always
be better than me I will never achieve
what they've achieved I will never have
what they have and then where does that
lead this is all unfair where does that
lead the psychological immune system
kicks in what is the psychological
immune system do it presents you the
external reasons why things are the way
that they are assures you that none of
this is your fault which means that you
don't retain your power you don't look
at what you could be doing to make a
change to get a better result and
remember the psychological immune system
is pointing out real things it's
pointing out valid excuses but if you
take those excuses and sit in that fixed
mindset you're not going to get where
you want to go and this is the thing I'm
obsessed with in my life
read a lot of Internet comments and I
see over and over and over people
looking at other people that are more
successful than they are and they meet
it with vitriol they are so angry the
system is broken I'm not saying it's not
but that's what they're focused on the
system is broken this person has scammed
the world let's say that they have let's
say that the system is broken and that
person has scammed the world how does
that help you how does that push you
towards your goals how does giving up
and saying it's all so corrupt we're
never going to get anywhere think about
the greatest people in history the
people that have just done insane things
my go-to is always Nelson Mandela I
cannot imagine
other than outright slavery I cannot
imagine a system more stacked against
somebody than what happened to Nelson
Mandela he was put in prison and
literally treated like a slave for 27
years and yet came out of that and
helped unite a country and moved people
forward and so he had every excuse at
his disposal as to why he couldn't make
something of his life and he becomes one
of the most important people in modern
history guys don't grab excuses not
because they're not real not because
they're not valid don't grab excuses
because it will stop you from achieving
what you want to achieve in your life
the greatest walking Among Us are all
the people that realize yeah these are
valid these are very real reasons why
it's harder for me than somebody else
and this sucks and I wish it wasn't so
but they deal with the world the way
that it is not the way they wish it were
and the way that the world is is you can
get better at anything if you have a
growth mindset you can 100x your
abilities and if you stay focused you
don't break you don't give in there's
virtually no limit to what you can
accomplish the truth is hitting your
career goals is not easy you have to be
willing to go the extra mile to stand
out and do hard things better than
anybody else but there are 10 steps I
want to take you through that will 100x
your efficiency so you can crush your
goals and get back more time into your
day you'll not only get control of your
time you'll learn how to use that
momentum to take on your next big goal
to help you do this I've created a list
of the 10 most impactful things that any
High achiever needs to dominate and you
can download it for free by clicking the
link in today's description alright my
friend back to today's episode
foreign
there's something that's really
important to remember you become what
you repeat so people that are high
Achievers they do not allow themselves
to repeat anything that diminishes their
sense of self that diminishes their will
to push forward that diminishes their
sense of I can improve at this thing
over time so high Achievers are putting
themselves in an optimistic State the
reason they need to be in an optimistic
state is because going back to the first
answer mindset is everything if you
believe that by putting energy and
effort into trying to achieve your goals
you can actually achieve your goals you
will keep pushing forward if you believe
that no matter what you do you are going
to fail why would you keep trying you
wouldn't and this is why so many people
throw their hands up and they give up
because they don't believe that by going
after their goals they're actually going
to make it so a high achiever is
somebody that no matter what they
encounter no matter how many
difficulties they run into they're gonna
say things like there is a solution to
this problem they're going to say things
like I can get better at this they're
going to say things like I may not be
good enough yet but I can get good
enough they say things like with enough
time and energy I can 100x my abilities
in anything they say things like one of
my favorite phrases on a long enough
timeline I can beat anyone at anything
now secretly that one isn't a hundred
percent true but it's the kind of phrase
that even though I know at the edges
that it isn't true so many people give
up along the way that if I just keep
going and keep stacking skills and keep
getting better I know that I can beat
the vast majority of humanity at
virtually anything which is exactly how
I've been able to have the success that
I've had I am not smarter than the
average person but man I am way harder
to break than the average person I am
way more consistent than the average
person I am constantly reminding myself
I can get better but it takes a massive
amount of time and energy that's another
thing I remind myself everything is
moving towards chaos at all times people
are trying to stop me actively the world
is unintentionally trying to stop me the
world is complex humans are difficult
humans are complex life is confusing
life is chaotic and it takes a
tremendous amount of energy but another
thing that high Achievers tell
themselves if I focus on what I could do
differently if I hold on to the fact
that my life is an exact reflection of
my choices but that one's sinking my
life is an exact reflection of my
choices if when I was born I look like
my parents when I die I look like my
choices I cannot remember who I first
heard say that but man that one gives me
the chills when we're born we look like
our parents when we die we look like our
choices
that one's sexy I'm not gonna lie so if
you stay focused on that as high
Achievers do then you begin going okay
there is something that I could do here
to level up my skill set that would
allow me to do something different that
would allow me to get a different
outcome and that's the goal if you
retain control if you don't say oh this
is society's problem this is that person
that tried to stop me's problem what
could I do differently this is my
problem to solve what could I do
differently to get a different outcome
if you stay focused on that you will for
sure or be able to achieve more than
somebody who doesn't now the key is that
you become what you repeat so be very
thoughtful not only to tell yourself all
of those things but you want to make
sure that you pattern interrupt if
you're telling yourself something
negative so so many people that get
stuck again psychological immune system
will come to your Aid so if you're
repeating yourself I'm dumb I'm stupid
I'm not good enough of that I don't have
enough talent I don't come from the
right background all of that then your
psychological immune system is going to
want to soothe your ego around that and
so you're going to find a way to make
those things somebody else's fault and
you're going to start moving yourself
into the zone of not trying giving up
coasting going easy doing what I used to
do which is put myself in smaller and
smaller rooms with people that were at
my level of intellect or lower rather
than people that really pushed me to get
better
so if you're saying negative things like
that if you're developing a negative
world view like that you need to pattern
interrupt that there's an amazing book
called feeling great by David D Burns
read that book it talks about cognitive
behavioral therapy and the way that you
can use pattern interrupts to stop
yourself from repeating things that are
self-destructive and to get yourself out
of cognitive
Illusions so you want to be very careful
and to help you get out of cognitive
distortions you want to make sure that
you're not looking at the world through
a distorted lens of your own creation
okay that is how you leverage the things
that you repeat to get ahead and stop
yourself from repeating things that are
going to hold you back my journey to
developing a growth mindset was a very
long journey I had a fixed mindset for
my entire life until I was about 25. now
look there were Shades in there where I
was beginning to grasp that something
was going on uh but my journey went like
this as a kid I believe that my talent
and intelligence were fixed traits I did
not believe that I could improve them
and so I thought okay like I'm you know
average-ish and I knew that I was more
verbal than most people and so I
certainly tried to leverage that to my
benefit but as I got older I started
encountering people that were better
faster stronger smarter than me and it
really began to damage my sense of self
now when I was 15 around there I was
introduced to the dowdishing and
thankfully before that I had seen the
movie The Empire Strikes Back which
introduced me to Yoda and I thought Yoda
was amazing I love the way that he
talked and later in life I would realize
just how real his advice was and the
doujing sounded so much like Yoda that I
was immediately drawn to it I was like
oh my God this is so incredible and I
realized now looking back that the dowdy
Gene was really what planted the idea of
a growth mindset because it talks about
the cognitive distortions that we get
into the mental illusions that we all
live under and how what I now call frame
of reference that we're all looking at
the world through a really warped mirror
and by looking at the world to a warped
mirror we see a warped version of
reality and that can either hold us back
or it can Propel us forward now I had a
frame of reference that was holding me
back because I had a fixed mindset I did
not recognize that the human animal as a
species shows adaptation as our primary
strategy of advancement so we're born
helpless but over time we're able to
drink very deeply from culture knowledge
stacks and so now somebody born today
doesn't have to relearn uh the printing
press printing presses just exist and so
you take all of human knowledge and
we're able to live on the top of that
and just keep building things moving
forward it's incredibly extraordinary
what the human animal has been able to
accomplish by choosing the strategy of
adaptation so that we can learn from
people we don't come pre-hardwired with
everything we learn as we go and that
means that we can take advantage of all
the things that have come before us so
it's really really exceptional but I did
not have that frame of reference and
therefore I did not realize that oh just
because I suck at these things uh
doesn't mean that I can't go and get
good at them and so what I was doing
despite that I had these early seeds
planted in my mind around these
cognitive Illusions and distortions I
was really afraid that I was not going
to be able to get good enough at the
things I needed to be good at in order
to make my dreams come true so I've
always been very ambitious but I was
also terrified that I wasn't going to be
able to achieve the things I wanted to
achieve and so that was really
devastating for me and so as I got older
and life slapped me around and I met
people that were better than me at
things that I really wanted to be be
great at it really started to make me
feel badly about myself and so to avoid
feeling badly about myself I started
putting myself in smaller and smaller
rooms by putting myself in smaller and
smaller rooms I was reducing the
likelihood of me achieving the goals
that I wanted to achieve one I wasn't
around the kind of people that would be
able to help me two I wasn't around
people that were pushing me to get
better right because I didn't think that
I could get better so that didn't seem
worthwhile and then three because I
wasn't around people that were pushing
me and I wasn't in an environment that
was helping me grow I wasn't growing and
therefore wasn't able to actually make
progress towards my goals and so I was
doing things that made me feel better
about myself and it actually did work
that's the Sinister part about all of
this by putting myself in rooms with
people that were less ambitious than me
people that were if I'm the average
person people that weren't as smart as
me that made me feel awesome and so the
reality is I was feeling good I as I was
moving farther and farther away from my
goals so thankfully my ambition
continued to propel me to rethink what I
was doing so you know imagine me now I'm
sort of 21 22 and I'm starting to think
I've graduated from college I'm not at
all moving towards my goals I'm not
quite sure what to make of this and I
was like how do I really go and get what
I want out of life and I realized I'm
profoundly lazy I'm not even trying to
take the steps that I would need so hey
let me start putting myself out there
because I was highly verbal I put myself
into situations where my verbal ability
would shine that began to open doors for
me and then I started getting in rooms
of uh entrepreneurial rooms it's
probably the right way to think about it
just as an employee but in an
entrepreneurial environment and I
realized that being in that environment
was really making me feel badly about
myself because the people around me were
so much smarter than me meaning that
they were able to process raw data
faster than me like even all these years
later now that don't struggle with that
sense of inferiority I still recognize
that some people can just process data
faster than others so I know that's one
of the things that I have to work around
I need to optimize for that know thyself
right I still have a growth mindset I
know I can 100x myself in any area but
understanding where you are what things
are harder for you easier for you is
useful so at the time though I was
looking at the world through this
distorted mirror of not yet fully
realizing how much better I could get
but having Yoda's words in my head
having the Dao de Jing's words and you
know echoing in my head realizing maybe
I can get better if I push myself but
I'm in this environment I'm really not
feeling good about who I am and so I had
this moment of Crisis and what ended up
happening was I knew that that
entrepreneurial environment was the
thing that was going to move me towards
my goal of getting wealthy
but I finally could articulate in words
that I had actually been optimizing my
life for feeling smart
and so there was the the moment of
Crisis became very acute when I was
arguing for an idea in the
entrepreneurial environment I was
arguing for an idea because it was mine
even though I knew it was bad for the
business and because I was aware both of
the fact that whoa this idea that I'm
really arguing for is terrible for the
business and that I really wanted to win
and I really wanted them to implement
this idea and I was like why am I doing
that I'm like okay because it's my idea
why do I care about it being my idea
because I want to feel smart why would
winning this make me feel smart because
they would have done the thing that I
presented I would have convinced them to
do my thing and if I could convince them
of that that means that I'm smarter than
they are or at least that they are
giving me the the Accolade by following
my idea that gives me the feedback loop
that I'm smarter than they are that they
think I'm smarter and so I'm sitting
there going none of this really makes
sense and so I'm like what do I actually
want and so for the first time in my
life and this ended up being a Line in
the Sand it's the only thing in my life
that I can say is a line in the sand
that before this realization my life was
one way and after this realization I had
a growth mindset and my life was a
different way and the realization was
that I was building my self-esteem
around being right and that if I
continued to build my self-esteem around
being right I was gonna have to leave
that company and go somewhere else where
I was around people that weren't as
smart as me so I could feel good about
myself and that I would be right more
often and I thought wow it's weird so
which goal do I care more about do I
care about getting wealthy or do I care
about feeling smart and I realized that
I cared more about achieving my goals
let's say that because I don't chase
money anymore so I cared more about my
goals okay if I care more about my goals
and I know that I'm not good enough yet
to get where I want to go then I'm gonna
have to really Embrace unfortunately
Carol dweck had not written her book
mindset that defined a growth mindset so
I didn't have that word but a path of
self-improvement I'm going to go down
this path of self-improvement
aggressively now to do that I need to
feel good about myself I realize pretty
quickly that I couldn't just go okay I'm
going to be fine coming in here and
feeling like a [__] every day I knew
that wasn't going to work because I
built my self-esteem around being smart
so I was like okay well if I am going to
come in and do things that aren't as
good as they're going to need to be and
I'm going to embarrass myself and not
only look stupid but actually be stupid
meaning uneducated in an area that I
need to become educated and that since
being willing to make those mistakes and
looking stupid is a necessary part of
expedient growth what can I do with my
self-esteem that will allow me to really
Propel myself forward and the answer was
I could begin building my self-esteem
not around being right but around
identifying the right answer
I could build my self-esteem around
being the learner and by building my
self-esteem around being the learner now
I could fail now I could embarrass
myself now I could stare nakedly at my
inadequacies and I would actually feel
better about myself because I was
building my ego my self-esteem my sense
of self around being willing to admit
when I was wrong being willing to admit
that I had made a mistake being willing
to admit that I wasn't good enough yet
but that I could get better but I had to
lower my defenses I had to stop using
the psychological immune system to make
it somebody else's fault I had to take
responsibility for my choices I had to
take responsibility for my skill set I
had to take responsibility for my energy
and effort and I had to get better and
by doing that and taking a longer view
of my life and saying okay this is going
to take time I'm going to have to
embarrass myself a lot but I really am
going to get better I started to have
success so it was a very emotionally
volatile Journey that I went on that
required wired that moment of absolute
crisis of having
the two conflicting values in my life
being brought to bear in one moment
where I realized that I was in one way
moving away from my goal of being
successful and in another way moving
towards my goal of feeling smart and I
was like whoa wow that's really dumb
that doesn't make any sense and by not
judging myself in that moment and I was
just like I was so devastated
emotionally that I was like
emotional rock bottom
so I said no judgment whatever the
answer is the answer is just be honest
with yourself do you want to be
successful or do you want to be right
and I realized that I would rather be
successful and that forced me to pursue
a path of self-development and so from
that moment forward I've never looked
back and it's just been all growth
mindset all the time the most harmful
self-talk that anyone can ever use and
it will hold them back forever is this
isn't my fault if I could say
the most controversial thing I've ever
said the thing that has generated more
anger towards me and I was so shocked by
this
everything is your fault yes I know that
is a word that triggers people I say
that so that if you can face yourself
and say everything is my fault then I
know that you're not going to stop part
way to taking responsibility for the
choices in your life and look of course
I know that not everything is your fault
and if you were hit by a drunk driver
that's not your fault but I would tell
myself that that is my fault the reason
is I want to remind myself that I can
keep my power that I could have made a
different choice I didn't have to get in
the car right of course I don't control
that they drink and I am not in any way
shape or form interested in somebody who
has been the victim of anything in their
life to feel badly about having been
victimized I'm just saying don't let
yourself take on the identity of the
victim even when you are victimized
because it puts you in a defensive
posture I want to be on the offensive I
want to go after things in my life I
don't ever want somebody or something to
hold me me back and the easiest way to
let someone or something hold you back
is to take on the identity of the victim
so please don't get lost in that idea I
get it somebody's had horrible things
happen to them I don't want them to feel
badly either I don't want anyone to feel
badly about things that have happened to
them I want them to maintain their
emotional sovereignty to not let a
terrible thing Define them to instead
remember at any time you can
metaphorically take up arms you can grab
your sword you can go fight you can get
better at things you can Elevate
yourself people cannot stop you if you
get good enough but if you are
constantly like I'm in this position
because of something that happened to me
because of things outside of my control
your life won't become what you and I
want your life to become I don't say
this for my own sake this is something
I've already realized in my life if I
take responsibility for everything
there's virtually nothing I can
accomplish I already know that my
success is evidence in my life of the
reality of that fact but I worry about a
lot of other people that unfortunately
have ended up with a frame of reference
that makes them feel like things are out
of their control and even though yes I
know there are things that are out of
your control there's nothing I can do to
stop the Sun from rising tomorrow but I
would never allow myself to feel
helpless so the example that I always
give people is imagine that we
discovered tomorrow that an asteroid is
streaking towards Earth Collision Course
guaranteed this is a extinction level
event in that moment I'm not going to
say oh this isn't my fault I'm going to
say this is my fault now how do I know
beyond a shadow of a doubt that it's my
fault because there is a group right now
that tracks what are called near-earth
objects I know they exist but I've never
given them a dime of my money I've never
sent them an email with encouraging
words or ideas and ways that they could
do that better or that they could be
more prepared if something were coming
towards us and I could do that and even
though I'm telling you this story right
now I'm still not going to do that
because I don't think that's the highest
use of my time but I wouldn't fool
myself into thinking that there was
nothing that I could have done
differently that might have had an
impact now the reason that I live my
life that way even though that you and I
both know that if an asteroid is coming
like especially at the last minute like
am I really the person that's going to
be contributing to that probably not but
I'm glad that there are people in the
world that look at astronomically large
problems and don't say oh there's
nothing I can do they start going no
[__] what would it take what would
we have to do in order to have a
positive outcome here it is very easy in
life to throw up your hands and say man
this is out of my control and there are
so many things that are so overwhelming
that I get why people say okay that's
not going to be the thing that I'm going
to put my energy into I'm going to put
my energy over here but the key
difference is when you do that please
don't trick yourself into thinking
there's nothing that you could do it may
not be where you want to spend your time
and it may be a drop in the ocean of
what actually needs to be done but if
you feel like there's really no way that
I could contribute that becomes the
frame of reference through which you
view your life and even though it's
probably a little bit like screaming
into the void to think that I can stop
an asteroid from smashing into the Earth
all the things that we've done as a
species and at some point
the moon landing it's become so cliche
but really think about that how hard
would that be to to leave the Earth it's
crazy to land on the moon and then come
back safely it's insane and that
required somebody to go no we can figure
that out and that is all that separates
people that go on to be very successful
from people that get stuck is when
people that go on to be successful hit a
what seems like an insurmountable
obstacle they say to themselves there's
a solution here there is a solution here
I may not know it yet I may not be the
person that is capable of solving that
problem yet but there is a solution and
when you stay in a solution-oriented
mindset now you really have a chance of
doing something because you have that
frame of reference that is like the only
belief that matters which is that oh
this problem is solvable that means that
if I put in the time and energy to solve
this problem I may actually make
progress and that is exactly what you
need in order to get momentum going in
your life so please I'm begging you even
though I get it and I don't ever want
somebody to feel badly about themselves
because something bad happened to them I
also don't want people to give up their
power remember you can always do
something different to get a different
outcome you can always get better at
something and there really is always a
solution what is up my friend Tom bilyu
here and I have a big question to ask
you how would you rate your level of
personal discipline on a scale of one to
ten if your answer is anything less than
a ten I've got something cool for you
and let me tell you right now discipline
by its very nature means compelling
yourself to do difficult things that are
stressful boring which is what kills
most people or possibly scary or even
painful now here is the thing achieving
huge goals and stretching to reach your
potential requires you to do those
challenging stressful things and to
stick with them even when it gets boring
and it will get boring building your
levels of personal discipline is not
easy but let me tell you it pays off in
fact I will tell you you're never going
to achieve anything meaningful unless
you develop discipline all right I've
just released a class from Impact Theory
university called how to build Ironclad
discipline that teaches you the process
of building yourself up in this area so
that you can push yourself to do the
hard things that greatness is going to
require of you right click the link on
the screen register for this class right
now and let's get to work I will see you
inside this Workshop from Impact Theory
University until then my friends be
legendary peace out
one of the most hotly debated things
when I was growing up was is brain
plasticity really real can you actually
rewire your brain or said the way that
it was said when I was growing up can
you teach an old dog new tricks now
here's the great news this answer has
been put to bed it is 100 true you can
actually see video footage of it
happening you can rewire your brain at
any age so you're 98 and you're on your
deathbed you can still rewire your brain
now of course you can rewire your brain
a lot easier when you're a kid and kids
are hyper malleable and it definitely
gets harder as we get older but it does
not ever get impossible so please
remember no matter what if you put time
energy and repetition into something
your brain is going to rewire now you
rewire based on repetition because your
brain is always trying to be efficient
it represents something like two or
three percent of your body mass and yet
takes up 25 of the energy requirements
of your body your brain is a caloric hog
and since evolutionarily speaking
calories were hard to come by your brain
is constantly trying to do things to
optimize itself think about a computer
that's running hot it's trying to lower
the resource requirements and if you get
what they call memory leaks in a
computer the computer crashes the same
is true of the brain so evolution is
made sure that we don't have these
memory leaks that we close those apps
that are running in the background of
the mind so that you don't need to use
as many resources one of the ways that
it does it is a process called
myelination myelination is what people
mean when they talk about rewiring your
brains actually two parts it's where the
end of the neurons find each other and
they connect and they wrap around each
other okay that's the first part of
rewiring and they will actually if you
stop using them they will this connect
and they will search for something new
again you can see footage of this go on
YouTube Nobody's guessing at this we
know this is what happens now when they
find each other and you repeat then what
they're going to do is they get
myelinated which is a fatty tissue that
is wrapped around those connection
points so that the electrical impulses
can travel faster more efficiently now
the catch is when you do that now what
you've introduced to your brain is an
easier way of doing something and
because your brain is constantly looking
for efficiencies it is going to do the
thing which is easier which is simply
the thing that you repeat as they say
neurons that fire together wire together
and they fire together because you're
doing it they wire together because
you're doing it a lot that's repetition
so if you repeat dumb things negative
things self-destructive things that's
going to become the easiest thing to
think so I guarantee you this is part of
depression and anxiety you're getting in
a loop it's not the only part but it is
part of that you are getting in a loop
because that's the easiest emotion to
feel it's the easiest thought to think
is the thing that you think and feel all
the time so learning to pattern
interrupt that can become incredibly
important repeating things that make you
better at something something you want
to get good at do it a lot you're going
to get more efficient at that it's
incredibly incredibly important to
recognize the biological truth of how
that works but if you're wondering if
you can teach an old dog new tricks the
answer is an aggressive yes so get out
there and make use of it there is one
bit of self-talk that I've had basically
my entire life that I wish I could have
eliminated much faster and that is the
belief that I'm not smart enough to
achieve my goals now the reality is that
we are all 50 hardwired and 50 malleable
so there is a reality to be faced that
if intelligence is the ability to
process raw data quickly which is
probably a little bit more complex than
that but that gets Us close enough I
fall somewhere on that spectrum and I
can just tell you in terms of speed of
processing I'm somewhere in the average
range maybe a little above maybe a
little below but I'm somewhere in the
average range but I have been so haunted
by the fact that there are other people
that are way smarter than me that things
are easier for them than they are for me
that really held me back for a long time
and there was a there is a movie called
Amadeus and it's about Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart and in that movie is a character
named solieri
he's a real guy from history
whether what I'm about to quote from the
movie whether he actually said it or not
I don't know but this really defined my
teenage years into my early 20s
and in the movie solieri laments to God
why did you make me just good enough at
music because he was a fellow composer
to Mozart
why did you make me just good enough at
music that I can tell that I'll never be
as good as Mozart why couldn't you have
made me
as good or better than him
or so much worse that I would never even
think to compare myself and I thought oh
my God that defines my level of
intellect I'm just smart enough to
realize that I'll never be as smart as
some of the super smart people and
that really messed with me for more than
a decade and it wasn't until I realized
oh wait it doesn't matter where I start
mine get a hundred times better at
anything so now it just becomes a
question of what do I want to get better
at and that I need to change my frame of
reference I can lament to God all day
every day about the fact that I'm not
the smartest human that ever existed or
because that doesn't sound like a good
use of time or I can focus on getting a
hundred times better in an area that
really matters to me and contributing
meaningfully to people and that change
has rewarded me so tremendously with the
only thing that matters which is
fulfillment so
a hundred percent I wish that I could
have gotten over that much much sooner
self-talk is really important you need
to be very thoughtful about what you
repeat but if you want to be a high
achiever the thing you have to practice
far more than a growth mindset is
the physics of progress you just need to
be running that process
because ultimately
there's this weird relationship it's not
even weird there is uh an intrinsic
relationship between your mindset and
your execution now at the end of the day
only execution matters meaning you could
have the worst mindset in the world but
if you do the right things to be
successful you will be successful and
conversely if you have the best mindset
in the world but you never take action
then you're never going to be successful
so you need to be running the physics of
progress but to run the physics and
progress you need that growth mindset
because remember the physics of progress
go like this you have a hypothesis and
what you would need to do to achieve
your goals you're going to turn that
hypothesis into the thing that you're
actually going to do then you're going
to go do that thing you're going to fail
to some degree at that thing and then
you're going to need to assess why you
failed now in reading the data in that
moment and trying to tease apart what it
is that you did that didn't work you're
going to need to take full
responsibilities they're nakedly at your
inadequacies so that you know what to do
differently next time but what high
Achievers understand that people with a
fixed mindset don't is that you cannot
allow yourself to tell a story about how
it's something extrinsic to you outside
of yourself that created that failure
you have to take full and complete
responsibility but by taking full and
complete responsibility you're now able
to see what the data is trying to tell
you failure is the most information Rich
data stream on planet Earth in the
failure is the information that is going
to help you actually get better now the
cool thing about a hypothesis is that it
makes a prediction right that's the
whole thing that this is contingent on
and yes I know that this is
recontextualizing the scientific method
for success but your hypothesis makes a
prediction about what you need to do in
order to accomplish something when you
fail you realize that your base
assumptions were slightly wrong and that
you're going to have to improve upon
your base assumptions in order to refine
your hypothesis in order to refine the
thing that you do in order to make a
little bit more progress and so that is
what higher Achievers are absolutely
obsessed with is making sure that they
are staring nakedly at their
inadequacies looking at the data
figuring out how they can adjust their
base assumption to make a new prediction
to give them a better way of executing
and doing that over and over over and
over running that physics of progress is
how high Achievers actually get to their
goals it's not that they were born a
Super Genius it's not that they were
born with all of the answers it's that
they don't lie to themselves at that
critical moment of failure make it
somebody else's problem they go ah
there's something that I did wrong my
hypothesis isn't accurate I must refine
my hypothesis in order to make more
progress making it somebody else's
problem soothing yourself with
platitudes or anger that's something I
see a lot if you want to see what a poor
frame of reference looks like in the
real world go read the Twitter comments
of people that are very successful they
are met with so much anger I'm not even
talking about myself so please don't
think this is a self-congratulatory
thing I'm saying go look at like the
highest Achievers on the planet it is
crazy how much vitriol there is in the
comment section especially if you're
looking at people that have grown
businesses it is crazy it's because
people don't have a growth mindset and
so they're trying to protect themselves
which I actually get it's a natural
response that I spend a long time doing
I my hands are covered in blood on this
one I spent so much time doing that this
is simply me recognizing my own past
Behavior but I needed it to be somebody
else's problem I needed it to be my
parents problem for not giving me good
enough genetics I needed it to be the
world's problem for me being raised in a
lower middle class household I needed it
to be the world's problem that it was a
system stacked against me I I needed all
of that to be able to feel good about
myself which is critically important but
people that go on to be successful
that's not their frame of reference
that's not what they're thinking about
and so they're not just patting
themselves on the back they're not just
saying I'm good I'm smart I can pull
this off they're saying what did I do
wrong focusing obsessively on how they
get better
refining their attempt and then moving
forward and just making incremental
progress relentlessly over time that's
the path forward let's put an action
plan together that you can run over the
next 30 days that are going to help you
re-wire your brain for growth and
success it looks like this number one
you become what you repeat so you're
going to start repeating things that
move you towards your goals the first
thing that you're going to repeat is I
only do and believe that which moves me
towards my goals number two you're going
to focus obsessively on the physics of
progress the physics of progress are
you're going to come up with a
hypothesis and what you need to do to
achieve your goals you're then going to
turn that hypothesis into something you
can actually do you're going to do that
thing it is going to fail to some extent
you're going to assess why it failed
that will give you Clues on what was
wrong with your hypothesis you're going
to reformulate your hypothesis in a more
educated way and then you're going to
turn that into something that you you
can do you're going to do that thing
it's going to fail to some degree you're
going to assess why it failed you're
going to adjust your base assumptions
around your hypothesis and you're going
to repeat that over and over and over
the next thing that you're going to do
is make a list of the most important
things that you could be doing in order
to be successful so you need to have
Clarity on your goal that is hugely
important massive amounts of clarity on
your goal then you're going to turn that
into a list of things you can do you
know you have enough Clarity when you
can write down a goal or a thing to do
excuse me that would tell you what to do
with the next 15 minutes of your life
most people come up with a plan that's
so high level they still have no idea
what to do with the next 15 minutes of
their life their goal is something
that's going to take them five ten years
and so knowing what to do right now in
this minute becomes a an example of
somebody that doesn't have enough
clarity about right now today your high
level goal has to be translated into a
very near-term goal that you can achieve
that is part of concentric rings for
sure but we want to make sure that we
get into the list of things that we
could be doing right now part of doing
that is about habit building and that's
exactly what you have to do to rewire
your brain to rewire your brain you need
to repeat things okay those are the
things you're going to actively do now
let's talk about what we're going to
stop doing we have to pattern interrupt
because we're repeating negative things
that are holding us back if we don't
recognize that our brain wires around
that which we repeat we won't understand
how to unwire before we can rewire so
the way that you're going to unwire
things is you're going to let them
atrophy by pattern interrupting so that
you stop reinforcing the wiring okay
what people get is these mantras that
they have in their head about I'm not
good enough at this I'm not talented
enough the world is holding me back the
world doesn't want to see people like me
succeed whatever it is that you're
repeating that is stopping you from
acquiring new skills that is stopping
you from staring nakedly at your
inadequacy so you can see what you need
to change what skills you need to adopt
so that you can get better and make
progress so we have to stop repeating
those things so we're going to interrupt
that by saying the first thing I told
you I only do and believe that which
moves me towards my goals so hey I don't
allow myself to repeat that I'm not good
enough I don't allow myself to repeat
that I'm not going to be able to pull
this off I don't allow myself to repeat
that the world is stacked against me I
don't allow myself to repeat that this
isn't my fault I don't allow myself to
repeat anything that doesn't move me
towards my goals and so what that's
going to do is that's going to allow
for atrophy to happen in that wiring
because neurons that fire together wire
together so whatever thing that's
negative that I've been repeating that's
really reinforced in my brain and I have
to first pattern interrupt so that I'm
not repeating those things so that those
grips can begin to loosen so that as I'm
doing the things that we said we're
going to start doing we're starting to
saying those positive things we're
taking action we're looking at the
things that we need to do to actually
achieve our goals we're doing those
we're turning them into a habit
now I can let atrophy set in on the
negative things that have hardwired in
my brain and I can start repeating the
positive Loop that I need to be in
around repeating positive things only
doing that which moves me towards my
goals making sure that I have Clarity on
my goals making sure that I translate my
goal into actionable items and turning
that whole process into a habit so that
I'm sitting down every day and I'm
writing out my important things list I'm
taking the vast majority of my time to
actually execute on the physics of
progress and I'm just running that in a
loop constantly looking at the data how
is it telling me how to get better and
if you exist in that Loop for 30 days
you will really feel that you're
starting to make progress and then if
you repeat that for the next 30 Years
no one will be able to stop you all
right everybody that is the power of
developing a growth mindset I hope that
you will use all of the things that we
just talked about in order to hard wire
a growth mindset in your life because it
is the only frame of reference from
which you can actually execute on your
goals and have the kind of success that
you've always wanted get after it if
this episode resonated with you be sure
to check out the next clip about the
importance of gaining skills
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact Theory q a today I'm going to
be covering the topic of commanding
respect this is going to be an
interesting one I take your guys's
questions and I give you feedback here
in real time so without further ado
let's learn how to command some respect
question number one when dealing with
older family members who raised you how
do you go about commanding respect when
they have been your parental figure but
still don't take you seriously no matter
the effort you put into your goals no
matter how much you have achieved no
matter how many times you've proven
yourself competent and capable they
still see you as the kid that cannot
possibly understand the grown-up world
and treat you as an incompetent child no
matter your accomplishments how can you
personally move past that and break the
older person's identity of you is it
possible and how all right I love this
question because it gets to the heart of
commanding respect I actually think the
idea of commanding respect is probably
the wrong way to think about it you're
really going to be earning respect
you're going to be
getting so good at something that you
can't be denied and this is one of those
things that
I say without judgment I'm not saying
that you're not talented I'm not saying
that you haven't demonstrated competence
but I am saying
that if you can be ignored the only way
out of that is to continue to get better
get to the point show it so many times
that it is just self-evident now I'm
going to set aside insecurities for a
second because it's entirely possible
that what you're dealing with is their
insecurity but I never want to give up
my power and say oh this is just on them
and if you find yourself doing that I
will say hit the brakes right now
because first and foremost you always
want to look at what you could be doing
so there's two things you could be doing
upping your game no matter how good you
think you are you're still being ignored
and so if we talk about getting so good
that they can't ignore you then we know
that we haven't achieved that yet and
then the second thing you can do is move
on and while I know that is brutally
difficult to hear if we're dealing with
insecurities then that may be the only
solution so first I want to focus the
most of our attention on this idea that
you really can get so good good that
they that you can't be ignored and I
think a great example of this is Gary
vaynerchuk now if you guys don't know
his story it's such a cool story of
somebody who came up working for their
father their dad I'm sure in many ways
thought of them the same way that you
know he was just the kid and it got to
the point where Gary saw an opportunity
for him to do something in a completely
different part of the business where he
could establish himself so now it was
about an area that his father didn't
understand his father didn't have
expertise and Gary could show with
results Point Blank that he was able to
do something that his father wasn't he
took their liquor store business from
something like six million dollars in
Revenue to I think almost 70 million
dollars in Revenue I mean it was
extraordinary in a relatively short
period of time just a few years if I'm
not mistaken so that's the kind of thing
there's no way no matter how insecure
the other person is no matter how they
may have their own
um problems emotionally soothing or
staying centered or getting their ego
out of the way whatever the things are
that they're dealing with there's no way
to look at those numbers and not say all
right clearly what he was doing is
working and to me that is where you have
to get you've got to get to the point
where it it would just be absurd to
anybody looking at that situation to
think that you weren't killing it and
what I've always done in my own life is
say hey I might be outperforming
somebody but if I'm not absolutely
positively dunking on them burying them
with results leaving them so far behind
10x 20x better than the next person then
I need to keep going I need to focus on
me building my skill set and really
burying people with results time and
time again day in and day out weeks
months years of performance
now that begs the question am I back to
part two now am I investing this insane
amount of energy which is what it is
going to require a level of energy that
other people think is crazy Obsession
mental illness whatever it is that they
think about it
you need to make sure that you're
applying that level of energy to the
place where it makes sense to apply that
energy
now I don't know your parents I don't
know if this is a family business I
don't know all of the Dynamics at work
and it's impossible for me to say with
certainty whether this is a you need to
do something or they need to do
something but if you recognize that this
is not the area that you want to be
putting your energies into and you have
the confidence in your own abilities
then don't be afraid to strike out on
your own and I think that's very
important for everybody to have in their
back pocket is a memory that
in the end
if you really are as good as you think
then you should be able to go and build
something new using those same skill set
and if you're afraid to do that that may
be a sign that you're not quite as good
as you think and that's the best news
ever because it means that you're still
in control
all right
question two
how do I command respect from people who
are higher up the career ladder than I
am who are patronizing refuse to
acknowledge my achievements I don't take
their negativity on board I certainly
don't need their validation and I still
sleep at night but I would love to turn
this around previous attempts have made
me appear everything from pathetic to
arrogant but it's a challenge I want to
win and I'm intrigued as to how this
would be answered okay this is my life
this is the exact thing that I went
through so in the beginning of my
business career first of all I knew
nothing so people were right to question
me why I was there what the value I was
offering and I remember in the beginning
this was back at a technology company
when I first started I was hired as a
copywriter with by the guys who would
later become my partners but at the time
I was just an employee and people were
asking who's the kid in the server room
I was the youngest person in the company
nobody took me seriously I was working
in an office where everybody had
floor-to-ceiling windows with a view of
the Pacific Ocean it was absolutely
stunning except for me and I was put in
the server room which is the sort of
business equivalent of Harry Potter
living under the stairs I didn't have
any windows I remember being so
embarrassed bringing my wife to the
office because there were no windows I
didn't even have like a proper desk I
just sat in a room full of the servers
that were running the technology that we
were building and I thought okay nobody
takes me seriously I remember one guy we
ended up letting him go and he was so
pissed that I was in the room uh during
his termination and so
there was a lot of sort of pressure
against me people thought that um
rightly so by the way in the beginning
that I didn't know what I was doing and
it took so much time and energy to grow
and get to the point where I was adding
enough value that I couldn't be denied
and that took me years
but I put in that work I picked the
things that I wanted to get good at I
put an inhuman amount of effort I'm
talking working to the point where my
wife finally had to pull me aside and
say you're now damaging the marriage you
are working so much
so I recognized that what this was was a
game of skill set and if a normal person
was going to be convinced of my skills
um you know say at Point C these guys
weren't going to be impressed by my
skills until Point Q fine I'm aiming for
Point Z and I'm gonna go that hard I'm
not going to ask permission I'm going to
really try to add value I'm not going to
see this as antagonistic I'm not going
to take anything on I'm not going to see
like you know [__] them and I'm just
trying to beat and crush them what I
wanted to do was get so good that I
could deliver so much results tangible
results for the company that people
would want me on their team and that
more and more people would covet to have
me help them that I would reach out to
people and try to add value to them even
if it wasn't my job and just see what
are the things that I can do to help and
by adopting that attitude knowing that
as I was helping people I was getting
better I was becoming more valuable I
was taking things on myself I was trying
to look beyond my job description I was
just trying to get
so freakishly good that one I could go
anywhere if I wanted to I didn't have to
stay in that company two if I'm honest
at that point what I was trying to do
was earn equity in the company so for
five years I didn't ask for a raise I
just put my head down and all I wanted
to do was become a partner and I was
just learning and learning and learning
and learning and if somebody made fun of
me dunked on me
um yelled at me whatever I just [__]
self-soothed that was the big thing was
I realized one of my superpowers was I
could self-soothe faster than anybody
else I could focus on skill acquisition
and I tied my identity entirely my
entire ego all of my pride was around
getting better
and by focusing relentlessly on skills
not worrying about other people in fact
trying to help them take on way more
than my job description put time in
nights weekends to learn a skill set
that I knew would be valuable to the
company and I wasn't even asking for
anything in exchange I just wanted to
prove
that I could get so good that they were
better off offering me a piece of the
company than losing me to somebody else
and that like that's that thing it's
become so frowned on in this culture to
work more than you're being compensated
for and I'm telling you right now if you
really want an extraordinary life
trying to optimize for your dollars in
the short term is a losing proposition
you want to over deliver
consistently at a freakish level and
then when you've done that
then you can make real demands demands
that will change your net worth forever
that's commanding respect
all right question three
I have practiced many times my body
language and the things I want to say as
well as the manner I should have however
when the moment comes and I'm confronted
by the person I need to have the
conversation with my facade kind of
Fades and I slip back into my normal
self and eventually I completely lose
the respect instead of getting it are
there any tricks or tips for keeping it
together specifically when the
anticipated moment of demanding Respect
by a specific person who did you wrong
in the past arrives oh my God okay
this is fire first of all thank you for
being vulnerable and sharing that I
think that's incredibly powerful now in
your question you're revealing the
problem that is haunting you so
respect
comes from competence whether it's your
own self respecting yourself doing
something you think is worthy getting
good at something that is valuable
that's how you get somebody else's
respect
you don't get respect by saying you
should treat me this way
and
respect cannot be given it must be
earned and I remember hearing that at
the beginning of my career and thinking
[__] man like I can't just go to
somebody and say hey don't be a dick
like you need to treat me better and
that got me nowhere it makes you look
weak like you said I mean you literally
put in the question where uh my facade
kind of Fades and I slip back into my
normal self and eventually I completely
lose the respect instead of getting it
okay this is a game of confidence
to be confident you must actually be
good at something I'm sure you've heard
the phrase that confidence comes from
competence okay the same with respect if
you want to get that respect you
actually have to get good at something
if you want to get that respect you
actually have to respect yourself you
want oh God there's a great story so I
interviewed
um
Matthew McConaughey watch the episode
first of all it's fire that dude's
amazing but he in his book green lights
he talks about how he came to Hollywood
and first he was discovered in Texas now
why was he discovered in Texas because
he had Swagger he had that it Factor he
didn't give a [__] he didn't want
people's approval he wasn't asking for
anything he wasn't coming to the world
with his hand out this is so critical
this was a turning point in my life
don't come to the world with your hand
out don't act like the world owes you
anything the people that are
disrespecting you don't owe you [__] and
you shouldn't want anything from them
you shouldn't be thinking about them you
should be thinking about becoming a
beast that cannot be stopped because you
have a set of skills
that lets you do something other people
can't do
my favorite
one of my favorite quotes all time
certainly my favorite Kobe Bryant quote
booze don't block dunks
if you get so good at something that
people can't stop you they can't stop
you think about being on a basketball
court the other team they are paying
their players millions of dollars to
stop somebody from putting a ball into
the hoop but you can actually get so
good that they cannot stop you from
doing it no matter how hard they try
life
is like that
you actually okay remember skills have
utility
so you can actually get so good at
something your skill set is so Superior
to other people your competitors the
other people in your work environment
whoever
that even though they want to stop you
they can't
because you've just gotten that much
better than they are now back to Matthew
McConaughey goes to Hollywood they
picked him out of obscurity because he
had Swagger he goes there and all of a
sudden he loses that Swagger and before
his
agent I guess would let him go to his
first audition he said no no I can I can
see that you've got your hand out now
that you want something from this town
so we sent him on like a two-month
motorcycle journey across Europe or some
crazy [__] like that and he said when
you're ready and you no longer want
anything from this town and you can just
walk in be you totally unapologetically
then we'll start sending you out on
auditions he did it he comes back he's
got a Swagger he sends him in and
obviously the rest is history
man that that [__] is hard and I know
that people want an easier path forward
but the reality is you have to get so
good you can dunk on even the people
trying to stop you that's just the truth
and when you do that and you're no
longer wanting other people's respect
you don't care about that all you're
doing is investing in skill set then it
will pay off all of a sudden people will
respect you and by the way be kind to
people
extend that respect to those that have
earned it of course but don't be cold or
cruel even when people are being that
way to you I just I can't tell you how
much that will pay off in the end all
right
that's the key get that Swagger
question four
hello
I would like to know what kind of things
one should do in order to command
respect how should one handle situations
to receive people's respect what body
language commands respect can respect
and kindness go together if so how to
find a good balance I have noticed that
when I'm too nice I don't receive
respect however when a mean side comes
out people show respect oh my God I need
to shout out Patty
Patty you pick fire questions these are
amazing all right I want to zoom in on a
part of this question so it is absolute
[__] that being nice causes people
not to respect you and that being mean
gets you respect what being mean will do
is get you a change in behavior and you
can display dominance by being
aggressive or by being mean and I'm not
saying there's not a time to
um display dominance there is that's a
whole we'll do a whole episode on
dominance Patty but kindness
is how you build teams connection
wanting other people to win
celebrating other people lifting them up
I can think of few ways to get people's
it's not respect
I can think a few ways to get people to
want you on their team that are more
effective than helping celebrating
cheering for them being kind
this sounds stupid but I have yet to
find a better way to say this filling
your heart with love like you go into a
situation and you just want the people
around you to win
now
that doesn't mean
that you don't show up every day like
the hardest core [__] there is
playing to win
being Ultra intense
setting a standard and expecting people
that want to draft on you to play at
that same level but you should be able
to have
maybe even more kindness for the person
that's struggling to do that the person
that is
maybe paralyzed or overwhelmed
that even as you're going that hardcore
that people can see that you actually
care about humans that it isn't just
who's got something that they can do for
me who's going to be able to lift me up
and help my project but you're looking
for ways to help other people you're
going out of your way to be kind to
people that stuff is worth its weight in
gold but you're never going to get
people's respect until you're actually
good so now imagine being the best on
the team
and being kind to the worst
player that's probably not the right way
to think about I'm going to tease two
ideas out
I think you do need to hold the worst
player accountable
but John Wooden one of the greatest
basketball coaches of all time said that
he would judge people when he was
scouting a high school player that there
were times where he would intentionally
have like the janitor or The Waterboy or
something spill water around a player he
was recruiting Because he wanted to see
how they would react and if they were a
jerk to that person he wouldn't bring
them on the team because he knew it's
not just about finding the best players
it's about finding people that can work
together finding ways to create harmony
let's talk about Michael Jordan Phil
Jackson said that until he helped
Michael become a leader they didn't win
championships because Michael was so
antagonistic and look Michael is hard on
people his whole career don't get me
wrong but he said he had to help Michael
understand that he had to play as a team
that this couldn't be just about Jordan
and now if you look at the things that
Jordan talks about he always credits the
team the team the team I was a part of a
winning team and he'll rattle off the
players by name
and if you read 11 rings by Phil Jackson
he talks about that transition that
Jordan went through and that to me is
extraordinarily telling of greatness
that
you get yourself
good extraordinary to the point where
people can rely on you you're you're
really pursuing greatness
you're pushing other people to achieve
greatness but you're not doing it at the
expense of kindness and so when I'm
being aggressive and there is no
question I think my team will be the
first to tell you that I can be very
aggressive
my aggression always comes out in two
forms one what's our goal and are we
actually doing the things we need to do
to achieve it and then two
we have a culture
and the culture at impact theory is
designed to help us achieve our goals
you can't work at impact Theory unless
you buy into the culture and I would
expect people to hold me accountable to
that culture as quickly as I hold them
accountable but let me tell you I show
up every day
leading because I'm the right person to
lead not because I'm the CEO
and because I approach it like that
because I'm trying to outwork everybody
because I'm trying to have in my area a
deeper skill set than anybody
and then I'm showing kindness generosity
of spirit it just it creates camaraderie
and it allows you to create momentum
momentum is definitely a whole other
episode unto itself but that's the thing
you want to bring together I always tell
people I'm looking for three things
Grand ambition the drive to see that
ambition through and compassion
normally you see drive and ambition
paired up with competitiveness but I
actually want people that can Elevate
other people
and I think that's a huge part of this
all right
question five
how do you command respect from people
who have either seen you in Low Places
and do not respect you or people who
have been free with their disrespect for
you in the past how can you command
respect from them in your current
reality all right I want to talk about
being low I think that's a really
interesting part of this so one I can't
uh I can't rule out that you may be in a
toxic environment so let's just say if
you're in a toxic environment that's a
real thing you want to get out of that
toxic environment you want to move on to
something else like that just trying to
change a whole organization if they are
toxic is not interesting to me in the
slightest now toxicity comes from
insecurity so if that helps it actually
does help me to know that when people
are
um mean-spirited when they like to see
other people fail it's all coming from
their own insecurities I find tremendous
emotional relief in that uh
now I want to talk about being low
in a non-toxic environment
while I don't think anybody races to
have others witness them at their worst
we've all been there
we are all deeply flawed emotional
creatures and
showing vulnerability
should never be frowned on for you
forget how people are reacting right so
there's wallowing
and that is an interesting
shouldn't be interesting to you in
yourself or in others there is
wanting sympathy instead of empathy
so sympathy is feel bad for me
you should never want that empathy is
understand where I'm at
being seen is rad
and my wife and I have an agreement
I don't want sympathy from her no matter
how hard my life gets empathy
desperately
and the way that we've always explained
it to each other is if I'm ever knocked
to my knees
I don't want you to get on your knees
with me and cry
I want you to extend a hand
tell me how much you love me
pick me back up brush me off and remind
me of who I can become
that's rad
so I'm not worried if she sees me low
I'm not worried if my team sees me fail
um I think all of us if you're really
going for something extraordinary I
think all of us are going to fail at
least as much as we succeed maybe more
and so fearing the low moments is not
the right way to think about it
re-contextualize that failure as a
learning opportunity earn people's
respect not command it earn people's
Respect by getting back up on your feet
not asking people to feel bad for you
focusing on the learning opportunity
show that you have a growth mindset get
your ego out of the way
Focus entirely on getting better
and if you rebound quickly
with energy and enthusiasm
even if some people take the opportunity
to kick you while you're down
in the long run people will gravitate
towards you because they see that you're
real you're not posing they see that you
bounce back that you don't whine wallow
complain you get up you're focused on
Improvement and moving forward and look
the reality is getting great requires
you to fail over and over and over
there's an amazing quote by Winston
Churchill and he says success is the
ability to go from failure to failure to
failure without a loss of enthusiasm
and you just can't worry about what
other people are thinking when you're
down you have to go cool this is a
learning experience I'm going to get
back up and your response to that
shouldn't be orchestrated to command
respect earn respect to even think about
people it should be you have a goal
and you know to build your skill set to
the point
where you're so good that you can't be
denied that all the booze in the world
can't block your dunk you have to fail
because it really it it really is it
isn't a saying failure is the most
information Rich data stream you will
ever encounter in the failure if you get
your ego out of the way and you're not
crying about it and you're not you know
worried about what other people are
going to think you're just thinking okay
cool I failed and if I can understand
why then I can get better
now you do that day in and day out all
of a sudden you're going to earn respect
as as a consequence of you're just
consistent Improvement
and if I were going to sum up everything
that we've talked about today it's that
it's
not focusing on earning people's respect
or worrying about what they think it's
about
the physics of how the world works and
the physics of how the world works is
pretty straightforward
you have a goal you have an idea of how
to reach that goal right there's an
impediment between where you are and
where you want to be you've got a theory
about how to overcome that impediment
you try it many of the things you try
will fail or they'll be insufficient
you'll assess why it was insufficient
and you'll begin again more
intelligently as Henry Ford said failure
is just the ability to Begin Again more
intelligently and you do that over and
over and over and over and over and it's
what I call the physics of progress it
it's just you can't boil it down any
more simple than that
all right so don't be afraid of your low
moments if you're in a toxic environment
get out focus every day on getting
better and the respect will come as a
result of that
all right last question
what suggestions do you have to navigate
through cultural expectations or
negative perceptions about commanding
respect for example it's not as easy In
some cultures to maneuver the commanding
of respect from parents family members
Etc without it being perceived as
disrespectful which is much more
negative than in the American culture
hopefully that makes sense thank you
okay so yes that absolutely makes sense
and it is a very real fact of the world
that there's a reason that there are
some cultures are more entrepreneurial
minded than other cultures and this is
part of it right the sort of know your
place or the tall poppy
um syndrome as they call it down in
Australia that you know the it's the
tall blade of grass or the tall poppy
that gets cut down first okay there's
many cultures that have that concept and
cultures that are more communally minded
um tend to have that in the extreme
right so that people don't want to see
you try to rise above your station they
don't want to see you
do something as if you can be better
than other people so I just want to
acknowledge that is very real and so now
the question becomes what are you going
to do about it so the first thing that I
do is I have to divorce myself from what
other people think and once you divorce
yourself from what other people think
you realize that they don't have nearly
as much power over you as you thought
they did and it's only when you're
trying to fit in their system when
you're like for instance if you need to
live in their house if you are relying
on them for money
um if you're if they're your only
emotional support okay those are ways
that you get trapped so my parents over
my journey and my parents were amazing
they have pushed me to uh exceed and
Excel and all of that but there's no
question that as I was growing and
living a life that they had never
imagined that they couldn't imagine for
themselves that they vacillated between
being worried for me thinking I was out
of my mind and
um constantly telling me that I was
pursuing the wrong thing not out of
malice out of love which is oftentimes
where this comes from and I just finally
had to flip a switch in my mind and say
I'm trying to live a life that is
radically different from the life that
they have lived and so what makes me
think that the value system through
which they're trying to view me is going
to leave me lead me to where I want to
go and so if you're chafing under the
constraints of a value system that
doesn't lead where you want to go as
difficult as it is without stopping
loving them you don't have to cut them
out of your life but you have to say
here's what I'm doing I'm doing it
whether you want me to or not I still
love you but I'm doing it whether you
want me to or not and it's okay if
you're scared it's okay if you don't
like it
um and then give them the chance to get
on board over time and if they're
heckling you too hard you may need to
create that distance you are going to
have to build some boundaries and
it's just sort of the way it goes um if
you guys know Nicole lepera she would be
a great person to research in terms of
somebody that has had to deal with
family boundaries building those
boundaries so that she could build the
life that she wanted uh very powerful
advice around that and ultimately it's
that it's you know recognizing what
value system you're going to need to
have success in the way that you want
letting them know that you love them
that you hope that they can give you the
space to go on your journey and that if
they can't you're going to go on it
anyway and some of that means that you
have to make yourself financially and
emotionally independent and I think all
of us should strive for that anyway so
you know you should be
in a warm and loving environment because
that's where you want to be not because
you need
um something
so yes
I will leave it at that
Guys these were amazing questions thank
you so much for submitting them
hopefully you see that this isn't about
commanding respect it's not even about
setting out to earn respect it's about
getting so good that you can't be denied
for your own reasons because that's what
your goals demand
and as a consequence of developing that
competence developing that confidence
being able to show kindness even to
people that aren't showing kindness to
you and performing at a ridiculously
high level day after day getting better
year after year
that the respect will be just an echo of
that
if you do that I promise you even if the
people that you're around currently
still are hating on you you will be able
to manifest things in the world through
your skill set that other people just
can't and that will take you to be
around other people which you should
always be seeking out the people that
you want to be the average of right the
Jim Rohn quote you're the average of The
Five People You spend the most time with
leverage that improved skill set to get
around improved people if that's what it
takes if you're in a toxic environment
all right everybody that's respect I
hope that you're able to put that to use
in your life and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
thank you guys so much for watching if
you like this video be sure to smash
that like button and let me know
having the right mindset and skills are
only part of improving your life be sure
to check out this next episode about the
importance of implementing principles
what I want to do is walk you through
the ultra concrete steps that I went
through the changes that I had to make
to truly become Unstoppable so that's
what this is all about